Add WIF documentation for GCP Auth and Secrets engines (#27170)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/secrets/gcp.mdx

  This means to update access on the dataset, Vault must be able to update the dataset's
  metadata.

## Plugin Workload Identity Federation (WIF)

<EnterpriseAlert product="vault" />

The GCP secrets engine supports the Plugin WIF workflow, and has a source of identity called
a plugin identity token. The plugin identity token is a JWT that is internally signed by Vault's
[plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration).

If there is a trust relationship configured between Vault and GCP through

> [Workload Identity Federation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[workload identity federation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation),
```

the secrets engine can exchange its identity token for short-lived access tokens needed to
perform its actions.

Exchanging identity tokens for access tokens lets the GCP secrets engine
operate without configuring explicit access to sensitive IAM security
credentials.

To configure the secrets engine to use plugin WIF:

1. Ensure that Vault [openid-configuration](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-token-issuer-s-openid-configuration)
and [public JWKS](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-token-issuer-s-public-jwks)
APIs are network-reachable by GCP. We recommend using an API proxy or gateway
if you need to limit Vault API exposure.

1. Create a

>     [Workload Identity Pool and Provider](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#create-pool-provider)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [workload identity pool and provider](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#create-pool-provider)
```

    in GCP.
    1. The provider URL **must** point at your [Vault plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration) with the
    `/.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix removed. For example:
    `https://host:port/v1/identity/oidc/plugins`.
    1. The audience should uniquely identify the recipient of the plugin identity

>     token. This can be the [default audience](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#prepare)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    token. You can use the [default audience](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#prepare)
```

>     for the Identity Pool or a custom value less than 256 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for the identity pool or a custom value less than 256 characters.
```

1. [Authenticate a workload](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#authenticate)

> in GCP by granting the Identity Pool access to a dedicated service account using service account impersonation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in GCP by granting the identity pool access to a dedicated service account using service account impersonation.
```

> To allow the GCP Secrets engine to impersonate the service account, filter using the the unique `sub` claim issued by plugin identity tokens.
> This will be of the form `plugin-identity:<NAMESPACE>:secret:<GCP_SECRETS_MOUNT_ACCESSOR>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter requests using the unique `sub` claim issued by plugin identity tokens
so the GCP Auth engine can impersonate the service account. `sub` claims
have the form: `plugin-identity:<NAMESPACE>:secret:<GCP_SECRETS_MOUNT_ACCESSOR>`.
```

    in GCP.
    1. The provider URL **must** point at your [Vault plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration) with the
    `/.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix removed. For example:
    `https://host:port/v1/identity/oidc/plugins`.
    1. Uniquely identify the recipient of the plugin identity token as the audience.
    You can use the [default audience](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#prepare)
    for the identity pool or a custom value less than 256 characters.

1. [Authenticate a workload](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers#authenticate)
in GCP by granting the identity pool access to a dedicated service account using service account impersonation.
Filter requests using the unique `sub` claim issued by plugin identity tokens so the GCP Auth engine can
impersonate the service account. `sub` claims have the form: `plugin-identity:<NAMESPACE>:secret:<GCP_SECRETS_MOUNT_ACCESSOR>`.

1. Configure the GCP secrets engine with the OIDC audience value and service account
email.

> ```shell-session
> $ vault write gcp/config \
>     identity_token_audience="//iam.googleapis.com/projects/410449834127/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/vault-gcp-secrets-43777a63/providers/vault-gcp-secrets-wif-provider" \
>     service_account_email="vault-plugin-wif-secrets@hc-b712f250b4e04cacbadd258a90b.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
> ```

Reviewer 2: Adding indentation to align the code block with its instruction:

````suggestion
  ```shell-session
  $ vault write gcp/config \
      identity_token_audience="//iam.googleapis.com/projects/410449834127/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/vault-gcp-secrets-43777a63/providers/vault-gcp-secrets-wif-provider" \
      service_account_email="vault-plugin-wif-secrets@hc-b712f250b4e04cacbadd258a90b.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
  ```
````
